Anne's Flower Shop

[1] The Problem

Card stock products are a nuisance; not only are they impersonal but they produce a never ending stream of litter for the environment and mounds of clutter for our office spaces and homes.

[2] Solution

Thankfully, beginning on January 21, 2020, Anne's Flower Shop is providing a solution to this cultural dilemma with its new online platform AnnesFlowerShop.com. This portal provides consumers with an alternative to the traditional card stock options for their lives' demands ranging from young professionals seeking to share their contacts with potential clients or network partners to elderly grandparents sending holiday greetings to their children and grandchildren.

By leveraging the pervasiveness of digital notifications and near-field communications technology anyone can share professional or personal details with the simple tap of their phone and keep the message as fresh as it was on day one, forever.

[3] The Opportunity

Most new-age card stock options simply offer more detailed designs or sturdier physical copy material. Still the underlying issue remains. The glut of paper and card stock materials in our lives has led us to treat each new addition to our lives with [triviality]. On the business end: 27.4 millions business cards are printed daily with the total printed each year exceeding 10 billion. Despite this mass of press, nearly 90% of all business cards are discarded within a week of receipt. This amounts to approximately $800 million dollars of wasted capital in the industry.
When it comes to personal matters the issue is a bit more complicated. Anecdotal research suggests many people keep a few items for several months or years when received from a close family member or friend. However, over the course of a year most American households purchase 30 individual cards or more. More than seven billion greeting cards are bought annually for a total retail value of more than $7.5 billion. Though a few cards are kept for perpetuity, the vast majority of holiday greetings are discarded less than amonth after the occassion for which they were given has passed.

In stark contrast, Americans check their smartphone at least once every 12 minutes on average wih a total of 80 phone checks each day.
With over 300 million smartphone users -- that's 96% of the US population -- there is a glaring new opportunity and market for personal greetings and profesisonal networking.

[4] Market Size

Given the ubiquity of cellphones and the prevalence of their use, the total addressable market in the United States has a lower bound of 300 million users with a maximum of about 80 interactions a day if notifications were received five times an hour. To avoid intruding on people's time and space notifications can be space out to a more appeasable once or twice a day to once or twice a week at strategic moments that would increase engagement from this pootential minimal market of 300 million users. On the upper end, anyone with a smartphone with access to the internet -- about 3 billion people worldwide -- could receive the same communcations experience.

[5] Business Model

To reflect the digital nature of this card sharing platform our pricing framework uses subscriptions that allow the owner (in the case of business cards) or sender (in the case of personal greeting cards) to determine how often they want their intended audience to interact with their content. 

The Business platform operates on a $5.99 a month subscription with the option of charging annually for a discounted rate of $59.99. Additional user engagement features can be triggered and paid for in an a la carte fashion. E.g. a given card owner distributes her card digitally at a business conference with locaiton services turned on and pays an extra $0.10 to notify users of her services every time they enter a bar because her company has produced a new IPA beer product they would like to compete with one of the more popular brands.

The Personal platform operates on a tiered, fee per share basis. The baseline costs $25 offering unlimited sharing notifications with five people. The maximum 

[6] Business Value

Adapts the tradition of card sharing to the modern habits of platform-oriented consumers and businesses

Offers the owner/sender more control over the message they would like to share ensuring a greater level of engagement

Reduces the environmental impact of paper products by several billion units of per annum. 

[7] Competitive Edge

Card stock companies have not made the transition to entirely digital platforms due to their entrenched interest in maintianing their existing business. Several billion dollars a year flow into their coffers as part of the status quo. Other technology products have risen in the wake of their [laziness] including the Blue Smart card from Blue.Social. The BSC offers connectivity to online media content ranging from business profiles to any variety of URL accessible content found online. Our cARd will offer a much simpler interface connecting users to the owner's landing page or business profile on our own servers istead of actig as a mere portal to other platforms located online. Furthermore, instead of merely changing the center piece of the card, our cARd offers a completely customizable harware interface that owners can hold as a master cARd to stand apart from the rest. The simplicity of the digital platform keeps users within our ecosystem while the custom hardware design truly personalizes the experience from on the front end, making it accessible to all types of users -- old, young, business, personal. 

[8] Marketing and Sales Strategy

AnnesFlowerShop.com will feature a targeted Valentine's Day sale for our first batch of personal greeting cards. Advertisements will be posted online from Tuesday, January 21, 2020 to Friday, February 7, 2020 and promoted via social networks and email. Advertisements featuring NFC enabled posters will also be available at specific locations throughout the target cities selected by teh Executive Team on Monday, January 20, 2020.

[9] Executive Team

CEO (House of Venus), Patrice-Morgan Ongoly
Director (Anne's Flower Shop), Louis Banzani
Community Manager (Anne's Flower Shop), Guedalia Dina-Lenda
Operations Intern (Anne's Flower Shop), Emmanuel Dibala

[10] Financial Projections

Valentine's Day Sale
Costs
$20 per package
1000 packages built
$20000

Return
$50 per package
If (1000 packages sold) --> $50000

Net
$30000 (150%)

Post Valentine's Day

Costs
$3.00 for cARd hardware
$17.00 per month of hosting on AWS*
*Costs drops based on volume of cARds in service


Return
$5.99 per month
+additional variable costs

$59.99 per year for instant bill

$25.00 baseline for personal use